# Data Lake

## Introduction

The project is to buld an ETL pipeline that extracts data at Sparkify from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow the analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

## Dataset

### Song Dataset

Location: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

### Log Dataset

Location: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

## Schema

### Fact Table
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
`songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent`

### Dimension Tables
users - users in the app
`user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level`

songs - songs in music database
`song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration`

artists - artists in music database
`artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude`

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
`start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday`


## Steps
1. Put your AWS account infromation on dl.cfg

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<Access Key>
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<Secret Access Key>
```

2. Run the following command

```
python etl.py
```